Review Stacks Blog (#3031)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/review-stacks/index.md

---
title: "Review Stacks: Collaborate in the Cloud"
date: 2023-06-14
meta_desc: Review Stacks give you an automated cloud environment for every pull request so your team can ship faster, safer, and more collaboratively.
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - evan-boyle
    - pat-gavlin
tags:
    - cloud engineering
    - pulumi deployments
    - automation api
    - deployments
    - review stacks
---

Today we’re excited to announce Review Stacks -- dedicated cloud environments that get created automatically every time a pull request is opened, all powered by [Pulumi Deployments](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments). Open a pull request, and Pulumi Deployments will stand up a stack with your changes and the Pulumi GitHub App will add a PR comment with the outputs from your deployment. Merge the PR and Pulumi Deployments will destroy the stack and free up the associated resources. It has never been simpler to pick up an unfamiliar codebase, make changes to **both** application *and* infrastructure code, and share a live environment for review with your teammates.

![Review Stacks Comment](comment.png)

> Ephemeral environments for front-end development and static websites have become commonplace in recent years, but infrastructure and complex systems have been unsupport up until this point. Review Stacks enable you to iterate on both application code changes **and** infrastructure code changes at the same time. Making changes to HTML, CSS, Next.js, Go APIs, Pulumi configuration, subnet configuration, databases, and load balancers are all possible with Review Stacks. No more fumbling with out-of-date READMEs and developer documentation. Just open a pull request and you can start testing changes against everything from simple static websites to API servers, microservices, data pipelines, Kubernetes clusters, and any other piece of infrastructure across Pulumi’s 100+ cloud providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ephemeral environments for front-end development and static websites have become commonplace in recent years, but infrastructure and complex systems have been unsupported up until this point. Review Stacks enable you to iterate on both application code changes **and** infrastructure code changes at the same time. Making changes to HTML, CSS, Next.js, Go APIs, Pulumi configuration, subnet configuration, databases, and load balancers are all possible with Review Stacks. No more fumbling with out-of-date READMEs and developer documentation. Just open a pull request and you can start testing changes against everything from simple static websites to API servers, microservices, data pipelines, Kubernetes clusters, and any other piece of infrastructure across Pulumi’s 100+ cloud providers.
```

Reviewer: typo

> Review Stacks manage the full lifecycle of your cloud development environment including creating it when the PR is opened, updating it every time a new commit is pushed, and destroying and cleaning up all cloud resources when the pull request is merged or closed. They even integrate with GitHub checks so that you can gate your pull requests on successful Review Stack deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review Stacks manage the full lifecycle of your cloud development environment including creation when a PR is opened, updates every time a new commit is pushed, and cleaning up all cloud resources when the pull request is merged or closed. They even integrate with GitHub checks so that you can gate your pull requests on successful Review Stack deployments.
```

Author: appreciate the suggestion, but the proposed sentence doesn't quite read right. Will keep as is for now.

We've heard similar stories from hundreds of customers. From startup teams of five to enterprises of thousands, they're all looking for the same thing - so we went ahead and built it. With Review Stacks and Pulumi Deployments, you can ship with greater velocity, confidence, and collaboration.

Check out these resources and get started today:

> - TODO Review Stacks docs link

Reviewer: We'll have a workshop on Review Stacks with the GitHub and Azure teams ready to add here once this issue ships: https://github.com/pulumi/marketing/issues/763

---
title: "Review Stacks: Collaborate in the Cloud"
date: 2023-06-14
meta_desc: Review Stacks give you an automated cloud environment for every pull request so your team can ship faster, safer, and more collaboratively.
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - evan-boyle
    - pat-gavlin
tags:
    - cloud engineering
    - pulumi deployments
    - automation api
    - deployments
    - review stacks
---

> At Pulumi, our engineering team writes *a ton* of code. We have hundreds of repositories with programs managing thousands of stacks and tens of thousands of cloud resources. These tools and services power production workloads, internal tools, business intelligence and process, and more. When you’re an engineer looking to work in one of these repositories, making a code change is usually the easy part. The hard part is figuring out how to get a tight dev loop going. Are there instructions in the README for running locally? A docker compose file? Can I figure out what config and upstream stack references are required to stand up a fresh dev stack? We make it incredibly easy to build in the cloud and write prolific amounts of code, and with that comes a need to standardize our development process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Pulumi, our engineering team writes *a ton* of code. We have hundreds of repositories with programs managing thousands of stacks and tens of thousands of cloud resources. These tools and services power production workloads, internal tools, business intelligence and process, and more. And of course we use Pulumi to ship all of it. When you’re an engineer looking to work in one of these repositories, making a code change is usually the easy part. The hard part is figuring out how to get a tight dev loop going. Are there instructions in the README for running locally? A docker compose file? Can I figure out what config and upstream stack references are required to stand up a fresh dev stack? We make it incredibly easy to build in the cloud and write prolific amounts of code, and with that comes a need to standardize our development process.
```

Reviewer 2: Possibly too lengthy, might be better to come up with a 2 sentence opening, and then make this the first real paragraph. For example:

> Pulumi has all the building blocks to productively deploy and manage cloud infrastructure using infrastructure as code. But as more engineers on the team need to collaborate, and the scope of infrastructure changes grows, it becomes necessary for engineers to test and review their changes before deploying them. This can be challenging---until now. Enter Review Stacks: a new capability that automatically provisions temporary infrastructure as code environments scoped to a Git pull request making collaboration fast and seamless.

Author: Great feedback, tried to incorporate the spirit of this into a new rev. Let me know what you think.

“Pulumi allows every engineer to build and update infrastructure instead of only our infrastructure team, which enables us to ship faster than if we were using a domain-specific language,” said Aaron Gibralter, head of engineering, Mighty. “With Pulumi Deployments, we could easily set up a standardized CI/CD infrastructure workflow for every engineer that immediately makes them productive. Review Stacks automates the work of managing our own ephemeral infrastructure and makes our lives easier.”

Review Stacks also provide an avenue for optimizing cloud costs. Rather than keeping development infrastructure running 24/7, Review Stacks only exist as long as an engineer works on a feature. Since review stacks are flexible and built on Pulumi IaC, it is also possible to configure Review Stacks to deploy to multi-tenant environments that share development infrastructure to further streamline costs.

> “I’m making developers at Alkira significantly more productive while also making my job easier using Pulumi’s IaC platform and features like Pulumi Insights and Deployments,” said Santosh Dornal, head of software test & DevOps, Alkira. “I can get developers using IaC immediately with Pulumi Deployments and its GitHub integration, while Pulumi Insights makes it really easy to find idle developer environments that need to be shut down, which reduces our cloud costs.”

Reviewer 3: You can remove this quote

> “I’m making developers at Alkira significantly more productive while also making my job easier using Pulumi’s IaC platform and features like Pulumi Insights and Deployments,” said Santosh Dornal, head of software test & DevOps, Alkira. “I can get developers using IaC immediately with Pulumi Deployments and its GitHub integration, while Pulumi Insights makes it really easy to find idle developer environments that need to be shut down, which reduces our cloud costs.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
“At GitHub, we are constantly seeking to improve the developer experience and our partner ecosystem plays a big role in that.” said Matthew Manning, Senior Business Development Manager for GitHub Actions, “We’re excited to support the launch of Pulumi Review Stacks with GitHub because it makes it easier for teams to review and test their products before shipping.”
```

Reviewer: @EvanBoyle proposal here -- note: we're actually asking for Matthew's VP to do the quote but he asked for us to use his name as a placeholder.  Open to suggestions --

---
title: "Review Stacks: Collaborate in the Cloud"
date: 2023-06-14
meta_desc: Review Stacks give you an automated cloud environment for every pull request so your team can ship faster, safer, and more collaboratively.
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - evan-boyle
    - pat-gavlin
tags:
    - cloud engineering
    - pulumi deployments
    - automation api
    - deployments
    - review stacks
---

> Today we’re excited to announce Review Stacks -- dedicated cloud environments that get created automatically every time a pull request is opened, all powered by Pulumi Deployments. Open a pull request, and Pulumi Deployments will stand up a stack with your changes and the Pulumi GitHub App will add a PR comment with the outputs from your deployment. It has never been simpler to pick up an unfamiliar codebase, make changes to **both** application *and* infrastructure code, and share a live environment for review with your teammates.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Today we’re excited to announce Review Stacks -- dedicated cloud environments that get created automatically every time a pull request is opened, all powered by Pulumi Deployments. Open a pull request, and Pulumi Deployments will stand up a stack with your changes and the Pulumi GitHub App will add a PR comment with the outputs from your deployment. Merge the PR and Pulumi Deployments will destroy the stack and free up the associated resources. It has never been simpler to pick up an unfamiliar codebase, make changes to **both** application *and* infrastructure code, and share a live environment for review with your teammates.
```

Reviewer 4: Do we want to say something that notes that this sort of feature has been popular for application code in things like Heroku Review Apps, but that we are now brining it to cloud infrastructure as well as applications?

Making the connection might remind people why they love this experience (and have quite likely experienced it in some other more limited context in the past)?  Also incidentally help explain the name?

Author: Added this elsewhere, and will continue to iterate.  I'd like to avoid direct comparison.

> “Pulumi allows every engineer to build and update infrastructure instead of only our infrastructure team, which enables us to ship faster than if we were using a domain-specific language,” said Aaron Gibralter, head of engineering, Mighty. “With Pulumi Deployments, we could easily set up a standardized CI/CD infrastructure workflow for every engineer that immediately makes them productive. Review Stacks automates the work of managing our own ephemeral infrastructure and makes our lives easier.”

Review Stacks also provide an avenue for optimizing cloud costs. Rather than keeping development infrastructure running 24/7, Review Stacks only exist as long as an engineer works on a feature. Since review stacks are flexible and built on Pulumi IaC, it is also possible to configure Review Stacks to deploy to multi-tenant environments that share development infrastructure to further streamline costs.

> > “At GitHub, we are constantly seeking to improve the developer experience and our partner ecosystem plays a big role in that.” said Matthew Manning, Senior Business Development Manager for GitHub Actions, “We’re excited to support the launch of Pulumi Review Stacks with GitHub because it makes it easier for teams to review and test their products before shipping.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> “At GitHub, we are constantly seeking to improve the developer experience and our partner ecosystem plays a big role in that.” said Matthew Manning, Senior Business Development Manager for GitHub Actions, “The launch of Pulumi Review Stacks with GitHub makes it easier for teams to review and test their products before shipping which ultimately improves the developer experience.”
```

Reviewer: latest from GitHub

## Configuring Review Stacks

Configuring Review Stacks is a simple three-step process:

> 1. Create a new stack and `Pulumi.<stack>.yaml` configuration file - this config will be copied into every review stack that gets created, and can even be modified within a PR

Reviewer 4: Should we recommend `Pulumi.pr.yaml` as a convention, and to be explicit?

> 2. Configure Deployment Settings for the stack - this specifies how to acquire source code, cloud credentials and more when deploying via Pulumi Deployments

Reviewer 4: Should we hyperlink "Deployment Settings" - perhaps to documentation?

3. Set the `pullRequestTemplate` Deployment Setting to true - this indicates that all pull requests against this stack’s branch should reference this stack as a Review Stack template.

You can use an existing stack as a Review Stack template, as long as it has Pulumi Deployment settings configured. This will cause Review Stacks to get deployed into the same cloud account. If you want to separate the cloud resources in your production stack from the resources created via Review Stacks then you can create a separate stack and template that references a different cloud account (AWS, Azure, GCP, etc).

Review Stacks and Deployment Settings can be configured via the Pulumi Cloud console, the Pulumi Cloud REST API, or within a Pulumi Program using the Pulumi Cloud Resource Provider.

> ### REST API

Reviewer 4: It seems we're missing the "Pulumi Cloud console" option as a drill down?  Might provider opportunity to have a screenshot of this?

Author: Yup, will add the screenshot. Code changes had not been deployed when I wrote the draft.

```
curl -i -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Authorization: token $PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN" \
--location "https://api.pulumi.com/api/preview/org/project/stack/deployment/settings" \
-d '{
  "gitHub":{
    "pullRequestTemplate": true
    }
}'
```

### Pulumi Cloud Resource Provider

```typescript
import * as pulumiservice from "@pulumi/pulumiservice";

const deploymentSettings = new pulumiservice.DeploymentSettings("deploymentSettings", {
	organization: pulumi.getOrganization(),
	project: "your project",
	stack: "your stack",
	github: {
		deployCommits: true,
		previewPullRequests: true,
		pullRequestTemplate: true,
		repository: "pulumi/deployment-automation",
	},
	sourceContext: {
		git: {
			branch: "refs/heads/main",
			repoDir: "pulumi-pet-shop",
		},
	},
});
```

## Collaborate in the Cloud

> Cloud software is a huge asset but without a repeatable and standardized process for development, the sprawl of different toolchains and processes can slow you to a screeching halt. The cloud should be an accelerant to your business, not a bottleneck. Whether you’re a team of five or an enterprise of thousands, Review Stacks and Pulumi Deployments enables you to ship with more velocity, confidence, and collaboration.

Reviewer 4: I feel like the narrative here could instead be:
1. Infrastructure as Code with Pulumi enables you to define rich and repeatable cloud infrastructure environments for your projects
2. Pulumi Deployments enables you to automate the deployment of your long-lived environments (production, staging)
3. Review Stacks takes this even further, and lets you automate deployment of per-PR development environments
4. This makes it easier than ever before for *every* person in your organization to collaborate on your infrastructure and applications.

Author: Trying an updated conclusion that focuses on the motivation for building this. 

Totally an option to focus on advertising and selling deployments as a whole in closing, but I think we might be able to accomplish that in the CTA list. Give it a read and let me know what you think.
